Over the last lectures, you learned how to work with promises,
now let's turn to fetch which we already use in the service worker here. Fetch is a method provided by
Javascript in your browser,
it has decent browser support, you can find a detailed article about that in a lecture at the end of
this module and fetch basically allows you to send HTTP requests.
Now you might already know Ajax which behind the scenes uses the new XML HTTP request object, fetch
could be thought of as an alternative to that, though a bit nicer to work with.
Let's see how it works and let's go back to the app.js file for this.
I already have a promise here where I register set timeout, I now want to also use fetch as another
asynchronous task I use in my code. To demonstrate how fetch works, I of course need some web page to
fetch data from because I just said it's about sending network requests. For that we can visit
httpbin.org,
this is a page which simply gives you some example rest API endpoints you can send requests to. You can
post data to it, fetch data from it and so on,
for example on the get request here, this is data we could get back. Now with that,
why don't we use that and send a request to some of these API endpoints?
Let's start with that IP route which simply returns our IP address. Here right after the promise I create
here which wraps set timeout, I'll add another method,
fetch.
So fetch again is a method provided by Javascript and your browser, assuming you're executing this in
a browser supporting fetch,
so make sure you're doing this, Chrome in the latest version is always a good choice as it is in general
for this course.
Next we need to pass the URL here.
So let's quickly click on that link and copy the URL from the top here, paste it as a string here, as the
first argument to fetch
and in this case also the only argument.
Now I told you that fetch would return a promise, so we can chain then to it
and even though that's a new line, that still is added to this method here,
so this will use the return value of fetch.
Here we will actually get back some response,
it will automatically be passed into our function,
so let's start simple by simply logging that response.
Now if I save this and I go back to the application and reload this page, you will see that we got this
response here at the bottom,
this item here, this object.
There we got a response body which is a readable stream,
I'll come back to this,
we also get some headers here,
not really populated with any special headers though but interesting is we get a status code 200,
we get this OK property which basically is a check if the status code is in the 200 range,
so a quick way for us to see if the request was successful and we also got the type of the request, that
it's a CORS request, so that we are only able to access the response if CORS headers are set by the
server and this is the URL we sent the request to.
Now if we want to consume the body, we have to do something with that response,
we have to run a method on it, JSON because I know that for this route and you typically know this for
any route you target of course since there should be a documentation for a given API,
I know that for this route, I get back JSON data and JSON is a utility method provided by the fetch
API on the response object to extract that data and convert it into a Javascript object.
It is an asynchronous operation though because it gets a readable stream as you can see and it will
basically parse that stream for us which is an asynchronous task.
So let's return the response JSON method call
and this happens to also give us a promise.
Now we're chaining the
then call I was mentioning in the last lectures. Here we now get to extracted data passed to
the function passed to this then call and we can simply log that data here.
Now if we save this and we go back to the application and reload, you will see that at the bottom, we got
the response but then we also get this Javascript object, that's the parsed JSON data and here it happens
to have a property named origin which holds a string, my IP in this case.
So this is how we can work with that, how we can work with this fetch API for sending get requests.
This also shows us how we can easily use promise then calls.
Now of course this could also fail,
let me add a catch block where I catch any error we might get, in here
I will then simply log that error. Let's say I'm sending the request to IPs, this URL shouldn't exist,
so this path here shouldn't be handled by httpbin.org.
So let's save this and now quickly reload the page. You see at the bottom, I get an error
and I still get an error log here,
this is from app.js line 39 which is exactly this log statement.
So we did catch the error and output the error message which in this case is no nicely formatted error
message but simply basically an HTML document
we seem to have fetched. Still, catching errors and executing code we want to execute here seems a good
idea
whenever you work with the web,
I'll turn this back to just an IP at the end.
This is how we can send get requests with fetch and important, you need to parse the response data before
you can use it in a separate step,
we will do this later in the course too.
Of course you don't just want to send get requests, in the next lecture,
we'll have a look at how we would post data to the web.